---
title: AOJ 182.Dividing
date: 2016-7-31 20:28:10
categories: 题解
tags:
- 动态规划
- AOJ
- 背包问题
---
# 题目
> 
> ## Description  
>> Marsha and Bill own a collection of marbles. They want to split the collection among themselves so that both receive an equal share of the marbles. This would be easy if all the marbles had the same value, because then they could just split the collection in half. But unfortunately, some of the marbles are larger, or more beautiful than others. So, Marsha and Bill start by assigning a value, a natural number between one and six, to each marble. Now they want to divide the marbles so that each of them gets the same total value. Unfortunately, they realize that it might be impossible to divide the marbles in this way (even if the total value of all marbles is even). For example, if there are one marble of value 1, one of value 3 and two of value 4, then they cannot be split into sets of equal value. So, they ask you to write a program that checks whether there is a fair partition of the marbles.   
>>   
>> <!--more-->  
> 
> ## Input  
>> Each line in the input file describes one collection of marbles to be divided. The lines contain six non-negative integers n1 , . . . , n6 , where ni is the number of marbles of value i. So, the example from above would be described by the input-line "1 0 1 2 0 0". The maximum total number of marbles will be 20000.   
>> The last line of the input file will be "0 0 0 0 0 0"; do not process this line.   
>>   
>>   
>>   
> 
> ## Output  
>> For each collection, output "Collection #k:", where k is the number of the test case, and then either "Can be divided." or "Can't be divided.".   
>> Output a blank line after each test case.   
>>   
>>   
> 
> ## Sample Input  
>> 1 0 1 2 0 0   
>> 1 0 0 0 1 1   
>> 0 0 0 0 0 0   
>>   
> 
> ## Sample Output  
>> Collection #1:  
>> Can't be divided.  
>>   
>> Collection #2:  
>> Can be divided.  

# 题解
[**>背包问题-多重背包<**](/post/Algorithm/Package_Problem.html#多重背包问题)  

模板题  

如果总数一半容量的背包能正好填满就是能平分

# 代码
```cpp Dividing https://github.com/OhYee/ACM.github.io/blob/master\AOJ\182.Dividing.cpp 代码备份
/*
By:OhYee
Github:OhYee
HomePage:http://www.oyohyee.com
Email:oyohyee@oyohyee.com

かしこいかわいい？
エリーチカ！
要写出来Хорошо的代码哦~
*/

#include <cstdio>
#include <algorithm>
#include <cstring>
#include <cmath>
#include <string>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <list>
#include <queue>
#include <stack>
#include <map>
#include <set>
using namespace std;

int kase = 1;

const int maxn = 7;
const int maxv = 500000;
int a[maxn];
int dp[maxv];
int v;

void ZeroOnePack(int cost,int weight) {
	for(int i = v; i >= cost; i--)
		dp[i] = max(dp[i],dp[i - cost] + weight);
}

void CompletePack(int cost,int weight) {
	for(int i = cost; i <= v; i++)
		dp[i] = max(dp[i],dp[i - cost] + weight);
}

void MultiplePack(int cost,int weight,int n) {
	if(cost * n > v) {
		CompletePack(cost,weight);
	} else {
		int k = 1;
		while(k < n) {
			ZeroOnePack(cost * k,weight * k);
			n -= k;
			k *= 2;
		}
		ZeroOnePack(cost * n,weight * n);
	}
}

bool Do() {
	int sum = 0;
	for(int i = 1;i <= 6;i++) {
		scanf("%d",&a[i]);
		sum += a[i] * i;
	}
	if(sum == 0)
		return false;

		
	printf("Collection #%d:\n",kase++);

	if(sum % 2) {
		printf("Can't be divided.\n\n");
		return true;
	}

	v = sum / 2;
	memset(dp,0,sizeof(dp));
	for(int i = 1;i <= 6;i++)
		MultiplePack(i,i,a[i]);

	if(dp[v] == v)
		printf("Can be divided.\n\n");
	else
		printf("Can't be divided.\n\n");

	return true;
}
int main() {
	while(Do());
	return 0;
}
```
