---
title: AOJ 115.Dairy Route
date: 2016-07-28 19:48:29
categories: 题解
tags:
- 动态规划
- AOJ
---
# 题目
> 
> ## Description  
>> Consider the 'map' below of Farmer John's milk delivery service. It has  
>> N (2 &lt;= N &lt;= 100) rows and M ( 2 &lt;= M &lt;= 80) columns.  
>>   
>> North  
>> . . . . . . . T  
>> . . . . . . C .  
>> . . . . C S . .  
>> . S . . C . S .  
>> D C . . S . . .  
>>   
>> Farmer John delivers milk to his rural customers (denoted as 'C') as he  
>> travels from the dairy (denoted as 'D' and always located in the lower left  
>> hand corner) to the town (denoted as 'T' and always located in the upper  
>> right corner). He traverses roads on the square grid by moving either  
>> horizontally to the right or vertically toward the top, never diagonally.  
>> FJ never travels toward the left or toward the bottom of his map. Some  
>> roads are blocked by snow (denoted as 'S') which means FJ can not traverse  
>> that square.  
>>   
>> Write a program that cowculates the total number of different milk routes  
>> available from the dairy to the town. Two routes are different if they  
>> differ on any part of the path. FJ routes are always arranged so that all  
>> customers can be reached while moving north and east. The total number of  
>> different milk routes will fit in a 32-bit signed integer.  
>>   
>> <!--more-->  
> 
> ## Input  
>> * Line 1: Four integers: N, M, C (the number of customers, 1 &lt;= C),  
>> and S (the number of snow drifts, 0 &lt;= S)  
>>   
>> * Lines 2..C+1: Each line contains a pair of space separated integers that  
>> give, respectively, the row and column of a customer. The dairy  
>> is located in the lower left corner at (1,1). Customers will  
>> not be located at the dairy or in the town.  
>>   
>>   
>> * Lines C+2..C+S+1: If S > 0, each line contains a pair of space separated  
>> integers that give, respectively, the row and column of a  
>> snowdrift.  
>>   
>>   
> 
> ## Output  
>> A single integer that is the total number of different milk routes  
>> available for FJ to deliver his milk.  
>>   
>>   
> 
> ## Sample Input  
>> 5 8 4 4  
>> 1 2  
>> 2 5  
>> 3 5  
>> 4 7  
>> 1 5  
>> 2 2  
>> 2 7  
>> 3 6  
>>   
> 
> ## Sample Output  
>> 4  
>>   
>> Hint  
>> [Here are all four routes for the example input/output:  
>> . . . . . . . \* . . . . . . . \* . . . . . . \* \* . . . . . . \* \*  
>> . . . . \* \* \* \* . . . . \* \* \* \* . . . . \* \* \* . . . . . \* \* \* .  
>> . . . . \* S . . . . . . \* S . . . . . . \* S . . . . . . \* S . .  
>> . S \* \* \* . S . . S . \* \* . S . . S \* \* \* . S . . S . \* \* . S .  
>> \* \* \* . S . . . \* \* \* \* S . . . \* \* \* . S . . . \* \* \* \* S . . .  
>> ]  
