---
title: Uva 11292.Dragon of Loowater
date: 2016-08-20 18:04:48
categories: 题解
tags: 
 - Uva
 - 贪心算法
 - 算法竞赛入门经典
 - 二分
---
# 题目
> ## Description
>> Once upon a time, in the Kingdom of Loowater, a minor nuisance turned into a major problem.  
>> The shores of Rellau Creek in central Loowater had always been a prime breeding ground for geese.  
>> Due to the lack of predators, the geese population was out of control.   
>> The people of Loowater mostly kept clear of the geese.   
>> Occasionally, a goose would attack one of the people, and perhaps bite off a finger or two, but in general, the people tolerated the geese as a minor nuisance.   
>> One day, a freak mutation occurred, and one of the geese spawned a multi-headed fire-breathing dragon. When the dragon grew up, he threatened to burn the Kingdom of Loowater to a crisp.  
>> Loowater had a major problem. The king was alarmed, and called on his knights to slay the dragon and save the kingdom.  
>> The knights explained: “To slay the dragon, we must chop off all its heads.   
>> Each knight can chop off one of the dragon’s heads. The heads of the dragon are of different sizes. In order to chop off a head, a knight must be at least as tall as the diameter of the head.   
>> The knights’ union demands that for chopping off a head, a knight must be paid a wage equal to one gold coin for each centimetre of the knight’s height.”  
>> Would there be enough knights to defeat the dragon  The king called on his advisors to help him decide how many and which knights to hire. After having lost a lot of money building Mir Park, the  
>> king wanted to minimize the expense of slaying the dragon. As one of the advisors, your job was to help the king. You took it very seriously: if you failed, you and the whole kingdom would be burnt to a crisp!  
>> <!--more-->  
> 
> ## Input  
>> The input contains several test cases. The first line of each test case contains two integers between 1 and  
>> 20000 inclusive, indicating the number n of heads that the dragon has, and the number m of knights in  
>> the kingdom. The next n lines each contain an integer, and give the diameters of the dragon’s heads,  
>> in centimetres. The following m lines each contain an integer, and specify the heights of the knights of  
>> Loowater, also in centimetres.  
>> The last test case is followed by a line containing ‘0 0’.  
> 
> ## Output  
>> For each test case, output a line containing the minimum number of gold coins that the king needs to  
>> pay to slay the dragon. If it is not possible for the knights of Loowater to slay the dragon, output the  
>> line ‘Loowater is doomed!’.  
> 
> ## Sample Input  
>> 2 3  
>> 5  
>> 4  
>> 7  
>> 8  
>> 4  
>> 2 1  
>> 5  
>> 5  
>> 10  
>> 0 0  
> 
> ## Sample Output  
>> 11  
>> Loowater is doomed!  


# 题解
**贪心问题**  
要想尽可能的少花金币,就要在屠龙的时候选最不浪费的骑士  
二分搜索 `lower_bound()` 往后找即可  

# 代码
```cpp Dragon of Loowater https://github.com/OhYee/ACM.github.io/blob/master/Uva/11292.%44%72%61%67%6F%6E%20%6F%66%20%4C%6F%6F%77%61%74%65%72.cpp 代码备份
/*
By:OhYee
Github:OhYee
Blog:http://www.oyohyee.com/
Email:oyohyee@oyohyee.com

かしこいかわいい？
エリーチカ！
要写出来Хорошо的代码哦~
*/
#include <cstdio>
#include <algorithm>
#include <cmath>
#include <cstring>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <set>
#include <list>
#include <queue>
#include <stack>
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <bitset>
#include <functional>

using namespace std;

const int maxn = 20005;

int dragon[maxn];
int knight[maxn];
bool vis[maxn];

bool Do() {
	int n,m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	if(n == 0 && m == 0)
		return false;

	for(int i = 0;i < n;i++)
		cin >> dragon[i];
	for(int i = 0;i < m;i++)
		cin >> knight[i];

	int ans = 0;
	sort(dragon,dragon + n);
	sort(knight,knight + m);
	memset(vis,false,sizeof(vis));

	for(int i = 0;i < n;i++) {
		int it = lower_bound(knight,knight + m,dragon[i]) - knight;
		for(it;it<m;it++)
			if(!vis[it]) {
				ans += knight[it];
				vis[it] = true;
				break;
			}
		if(it == m) {
			ans = -1;
			break;
		}
	}
	if(ans == -1) {
		cout << "Loowater is doomed!" << endl;
	}else{
		cout << ans << endl;
	}
	
	return true;
}

int main() {
	while(Do());
	return 0;
}
```