---
title: SGU 495.Kids and Prizes
date: 2017-08-09 20:20:59
categories: 题解
tags:
 - SGU
 - 动态规划
 - 概率dp
---

# 题目

{% fold 点击显/隐题目 %}
<div class="oj"><div class="part" title="Description">
ICPC (International Cardboard Producing Company) is in the business of producing cardboard boxes. Recently the company organized a contest for kids for the best design of a cardboard box and selected M winners. There are N prizes for the winners, each one carefully packed in a cardboard box (made by the ICPC, of course). The awarding process will be as follows: 

- All the boxes with prizes will be stored in a separate room. 
- The winners will enter the room, one at a time. 
- Each winner selects one of the boxes. 
- The selected box is opened by a representative of the organizing committee. 
- If the box contains a prize, the winner takes it. 
- If the box is empty (because the same box has already been selected by one or more previous winners), the winner will instead get a certificate printed on a sheet of excellent cardboard (made by ICPC, of course). 
- Whether there is a prize or not, the box is re-sealed and returned to the room. 

The management of the company would like to know how many prizes will be given by the above process. It is assumed that each winner picks a box at random and that all boxes are equally likely to be picked. Compute the mathematical expectation of the number of prizes given (the certificates are not counted as prizes, of course). 

</div><div class="part" title="Input">
The first and only line of the input file contains the values of N and M (1 &lt;= N,M &lt;= 100000) 

</div><div class="part" title="Output">
The first and only line of the output file should contain a single real number: the expected number of prizes given out. The answer is accepted as correct if either the absolute or the relative error is less than or equal to 10<sup>-9</sup>. 

</div><div class="samp"><div class="clear"></div><div class="input part" title="Sample Input">
5 7
4 3

</div><div class="output part" title="Sample Output">
3.951424
2.3125

</div><div class="clear"></div></div></div>
{% endfold %}

<!--more-->

# 题解

可以很容易列出概率dp公式  
`dp[i] = dp[i-1] / n * dp[i-1] + (n-dp[i]) / n * (dp[i-1] + 1)`  

由于 `i` 最大达到 `100000`  
使用递归会爆栈,并且没有必要开数组记录(每个都只计算一次)  
也没有必要去推通项公式(不会超时)  

直接 `for` 循环一边算出答案即可  
当精度要求能达到全部取走的时候就不用往后算了  


# 代码
{% fold 点击显/隐代码 %}```cpp Kids and Prizes https://github.com/OhYee/ACM.github.io 代码备份
#include <algorithm>
#include <cstdio>
using namespace std;

const double eps = 1e-12;

int main() {
    int n, m;
    while (scanf("%d%d", &n, &m) != EOF) {
        double ans = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
            ans = ((ans * ans) + (n - ans) * (ans + 1)) / n;
            if (fabs(ans - n) < eps)
                break;
        }
        printf("%.11f\n", ans);
    }
    return 0;
}
```
{% endfold %}